
.\"Created with GNOME Manpages Editor Wizard gmanedit
.TH ip6tables-converter 8 "August 2018" "Johannes Hubertz" " "

.SH NAME
ip6tables-converter \- program to convert ip6tables commands from file to ip6tables-restore format

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ip6tables-converter [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ip6tables-converter
takes a regular file containing a series of iptables
invocations and converts such a sequence to a format compatible with
the
.B ip6tables-restore
command. No attempt is made to reorder the sequence of the commands,
especially nothing in the input is interpreted in any way.
All input lines not starting with "ip6tables" or "/sbin/ip6tables"
are ignored. Any input lines starting with "#" are treated as comments
and therefore are ignored.

.PP
if \fBip6tables-converter\fP is run without any arguments, it tries to read a file named
.B "rules"
in workdir. Output is written to
.B stdout
That's the tribute to my way of doing.

.PP
Something needs to be mentioned:
.B iptables -E
intellectually still is an unsolved problem and not implemented for now, sorry.
Thank you for any hints of how to do it, I can't imagine because of some lacks in my
brain.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Normally ip6tables-converter returns a value of 0. In accidental case of
.B errors
exit status 1 is returned. For example, if there are shell variables or shell functions
in the inputfile, these are treated as error, which is reported. To avoid these,
execute your scripts and feed their output as a file to ip6tables-converter.

.SH VERSIONS
ip6tables-converter
.B should
be compatibe to any iptables implementations out in the wild. If not, keep me
informed, thanks. I'll do my very best.

.SH OPTIONS
.B -d filename
or
.B --dest-file=Destinationfile
This options argument defines the destination filename, where the output is written to.
If omitted, output is written to
.B stdout
for your convienience and nowhere else. So you can inspect it and write to file
for later feeding the ip6tables-restore command.

.B -s filename
or
.B --source-file=Sourcefile
This options argument names the source file, where input is read from. If omitted, the
default filename is "rules".

.B --sloppy
This indicates '-N UserChain' is not required prior to mentioning any UserChain
input or append, the chain is build on the fly. It was build in for special user
request.

.SH AUTHOR
Johannes Hubertz <johannes@hubertz.de> wrote this from 2013 to 2018.
Any comments welcome anytime.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR iptables (8)
.BR iptables-save (8)
.BR iptables-restore (8)
